---
layout: post
title: Getting KaTeX To Work On Jekyll
author: Bryan
categories: web dev
hasmath: "true"
---
## Introduction
I have looked through a decent amount of posts, blogs, and documentation and I have found that very few posts truly share a updated version of how KaTeX can be implemented into jekyll, specifically on github pages where. Before I get into my quick explanation of how to do this I would like to redirect you to the [blog](https://codewrites.me/jekyll/katex/blog/2020/08/26/use-katex-gh-pages/) post I read which I believe does a good job. 

## The Gist Of It
Basically, there are a couple of major components here, there is your jekyll website, there is the Kramdown (the parser that interprets Markdown and other things into html), there is MathJax (the engine that compiles latex notation into in-text images) and there is KaTeX (this is why we are here). The idea is that github pages and jekyll are very particular about which engine it runs. Not only can you not switch your math engine,but MathJax is the only available engine that will work. What we want to do is have MathJax intrepet the LaTeX notation which we then intercept with KaTeX's parser to then display KaTeX.

#### Step 1: Make Sure You Have The Correct Engine 
Within your `config.yml` please make sure you are using both Kramdown as your markdown parser as well as explicitly labeling your math engine. This should look like this.
{% highlight yml linenos %}
    markdown: kramdown
    kramdown:
        math_engine: mathjax
{% endhighlight %}

#### Step 2: Setting the KaTeX Script and Style Sheet
As previously mentioned we are waiting for MathJax to compile the markdown of our post which we then have KaTeX intercept and be rendered as Katex. Luckily, implementing KaTeX is simple but its very important to ensure correct placement. Input the following code after where you know that your (( content )) has been rendered. I personally put this in the footer of my HTML folder associated with the template I was using but as long as you ensure its after the markdown has been rendered you should be okay.
{% highlight html linenos %}
    <link rel="stylesheet" href="https://cdn.jsdelivr.net/npm/katex@0.12.0/dist/katex.min.css" integrity="sha384-AfEj0r4/OFrOo5t7NnNe46zW/tFgW6x/bCJG8FqQCEo3+Aro6EYUG4+cU+KJWu/X" crossorigin="anonymous">
    <script defer src="https://cdn.jsdelivr.net/npm/katex@0.12.0/dist/katex.min.js" integrity="sha384-g7c+Jr9ZivxKLnZTDUhnkOnsh30B4H0rpLUpJ4jAIKs4fnJI+sEnkvrMWph2EDg4" crossorigin="anonymous"></script>
    <script defer src="https://cdn.jsdelivr.net/npm/katex@0.12.0/dist/contrib/auto-render.min.js" integrity="sha384-mll67QQFJfxn0IYznZYonOWZ644AWYC+Pt2cHqMaRhXVrursRwvLnLaebdGIlYNa" crossorigin="anonymous"
    onload="renderMathInElement(document.body);"></script>
{% endhighlight %}

#### (Optional) Step 3: Render Only When Necessary 
KaTeX interprets markdown into HTML in such a way that can quickly become cumbersome for when we have a large amount of KaTeX to render. To prevent KaTeX from attempting to intrepet text that may not be there I would highly recommend wrapping your previously implemented script and styling links in liquid conditionals. The way I did this looks like this. This, however, does mean you will have to ensure the liquid tag of setting `hasmath: "true"` for any markdown post you wish to have KaTeX applied to 
{% highlight html linenos %}
    {% raw %}
        <footer>
            {% if page.hasmath %}
                <link rel="stylesheet" href="https://cdn.jsdelivr.net/npm/katex@0.12.0/dist/katex.min.css" integrity="sha384-AfEj0r4/OFrOo5t7NnNe46zW/tFgW6x/bCJG8FqQCEo3+Aro6EYUG4+cU+KJWu/X" crossorigin="anonymous">
                <script defer src="https://cdn.jsdelivr.net/npm/katex@0.12.0/dist/katex.min.js" integrity="sha384-g7c+Jr9ZivxKLnZTDUhnkOnsh30B4H0rpLUpJ4jAIKs4fnJI+sEnkvrMWph2EDg4" crossorigin="anonymous"></script>
                <script defer src="https://cdn.jsdelivr.net/npm/katex@0.12.0/dist/contrib/auto-render.min.js" integrity="sha384-mll67QQFJfxn0IYznZYonOWZ644AWYC+Pt2cHqMaRhXVrursRwvLnLaebdGIlYNa" crossorigin="anonymous" onload="renderMathInElement(document.body);"></script>
            {% endif %}
        </footer>
    {% endraw %}
{% endhighlight %}

I hope this helps.

## Comments Section
If it doesnt help, I was overly vague, or you need assistance please do not shy away from commenting below.